---
layout: page
title: Long-range two-qubit gates with the hybrid qubit and the quad qubit
description: Talk given in a group meeting at UW-Madison
img: assets/img/publication_preview/hybrid-photon.png
importance: 2020
category: long-range gates
---

Since this talk was given at a group meeting, there was no real abstract. I leave the abstracts of the two related works. 
It is also important to note that this talk was given before publication of these works, hence, some numbers/figures may not be fully updated. I upload it anyways because it summarizes well the two related works.

Abstract of Phys. Rev. A 104, 032612 (2021): Implementing two-qubit gates via strong coupling between quantum-dot qubits and a superconducting microwave cavity requires achieving coupling rates that are much faster than decoherence rates. Typically, this involves tuning the qubit either to a sweet spot, where it is relatively insensitive to charge noise, or to a point where it is resonant with the microwave cavity. Unfortunately, such operating points seldom coincide. Here we theoretically investigate protocols, based on transverse or longitudinal sideband driving, for implementing two-qubit gates between quantum-dot hybrid qubits, mediated by a microwave cavity. The rich physics in these qubits gives rise to two types of sweet spots, which can occur at operating points with strong charge dipole moments. Such strong interactions provide new opportunities for off-resonant gating, thereby removing one of the main obstacles for long-distance two-qubit gates. We find that the transverse driving scheme yields faster gates, while longitudinal driving yields gates that are more resilient to photon decay. Our results suggest that the numerous tuning knobs of quantum-dot hybrid qubits make them good candidates for strong coupling. In particular, we show that off-resonant red-sideband-mediated two-qubit gates can exhibit fidelities greater than 95% for realistic operating parameters, and we describe improvements that could potentially yield gate fidelities greater than 99%.

Abstract of Phys. Rev. Research 3, 013171 (2021): The energy landscape of a single electron in a triple quantum dot can be tuned such that the energy separation between ground and excited states becomes a flat function of the relevant gate voltages. These so-called sweet spots are beneficial for charge coherence since the decoherence effects caused by small fluctuations of gate voltages or surrounding charge fluctuators are minimized. We propose a new operation point for a triple quantum dot charge qubit, a so-called CQ3-qubit, having a third-order sweet spot. We show strong coupling of the qubit to single photons in a frequency tunable high-impedance SQUID-array resonator. In the dispersive regime, we investigate the qubit linewidth in the vicinity of the proposed operating point. In contrast to the expectation for a higher-order sweet spot, we there find a local maximum of the linewidth. We find that this is due to a non-negligible contribution of noise on the quadrupolar detuning axis not being in a sweet spot at the proposed operating point. While the original motivation to realize a low-decoherence charge qubit was not fulfilled, our analysis provides insights into charge decoherence mechanisms relevant also for other qubits.

<a href="/assets/pdf/hybrid-and-cq.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Download here <i class="fas fa-file-pdf"></i></a>
